Title: Come Work at YC - October 2021
Author: the end of the year. Learn more
URL: https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/come-work-at-yc-october-2021

Come Work at YC - October 2021
YC is hiring across many of our teams, including Admissions, Continuity, Software, People Ops and Finance. Find out more about the open roles here.
ADMISSIONS
Admissions Officer: Twice a year, Y Combinator receives tens of thousands of applications from promising startups all around the world. Reviewing these applications is fundamental to our core business and we’re looking for an Admissions Officer to review those applications and help manage the overall admissions process. Learn more.
Data Scientist: The admissions team uses data to answer interesting questions to find promising founders and make YC the best experience for them. As a data scientist on the admissions team, you will be the point person for data pipeline, analysis and modeling efforts, primarily focusing on admissions data. Learn more.
Product Engineer: We’re hiring another product engineer who’s interested in learning how YC chooses which startups to fund, and translating that into software. This means building better tooling for YC reviewers and also improving how we programmatically triage applications. We work primarily in Ruby on Rails and React (learning on the job is fine though) and are open to people 2+ years out of school or even 10+ years of experience. Learn more.
CONTINUITY
Content Manager: YC Continuity is hiring a content manager to help produce a library of content and tools for YC’s growth-stage founders. This is a phenomenal role for someone who is interested in learning more about startups, is excited to interact with founders, and is a clear and concise communicator. Learn more.
Data Engineer: YC Continuity is hiring our first Data Engineer to help us identify promising investment opportunities using data. This is an innovative role for somebody to build YC’s data infrastructure from the ground up. Learn more.
Research Associate: YC Continuity is seeking a Research Associate to evaluate investment opportunities, lead market research, and help our portfolio companies grow. This is a unique opportunity for somebody who loves data and startups to help us build definitive points of view to guide investment decisions. Learn more.
Series A Program Manager: YC Continuity is seeking a Program Manager to lead the YC Series A Program. The program offers all YC founders resources to help them achieve the best possible outcomes when raising capital: year-round workshops, detailed fundraising guides & templates, and 1:1 support. This is a great role for someone who is passionate about startups and interested in learning more about them. Given the number of YC companies raising Series As every year, you’ll have an unparalleled understanding of how these financings happen and the early-stage funding ecosystem. Learn more.
SOFTWARE
Product Engineer: As YC has gone remote in the last year, our small-but-mighty software team has been busy building the OS that runs all of YC. In the last six months alone, we’ve rewritten our entire Demo Day experience (to connect founders with potential investors), re-created the batch experience with both in-house tools and 3rd party integrations, and written software to help founders connect with one another for advice, intros, deals, networking and so much more. We have a ton more to deliver, so we’re looking to hire multiple product engineers to join the team. This is a great role for somebody who loves helping startups, is eager to talk with YC founders (our customers!), and wants to own projects from start-to-finish. Learn more.
PEOPLE OPS
Technical Sourcer (Contract): YC is looking for a technical sourcer (month-to-month contract) to support our internal team and help with immediate hiring needs. Partnering with our hiring managers, the technical sourcer will play an important role in deploying creative strategies to attract and identify not only qualified, but interesting candidates through a multitude of recruitment channels. We are looking for an independent contractor with strong technical sourcing experience to build a healthy pipeline of candidates and onboard 3 new engineers by the end of the year. Learn more.
FINANCE
Accounting Manager: Y Combinator is looking for an Accounting Manager, starting immediately, reporting to the Director of Finance. We are especially interested in meeting candidates who are detail-oriented, self-motivated and who possess excellent organizational skills. While your focus would be on the management company, this is an exciting opportunity to work with the YC Finance team on all aspects of our day-to-day accounting activities and special projects. Learn more.
Additionally, many YC-backed companies, from early stage to later stage, are hiring for all roles, including engineering, design, product, recruiting, operations and more. If you are interested in working at a YC company, you can browse open roles at YC’s Work at a Startup.
Author
Y Combinator
Y Combinator created a new model for funding early stage startups. Twice a year we invest a small amount of money ($150k) in a large number of startups (recently 200). The startups move to Silicon
