Title: Come Work at YC
Author: Y Combinator
URL: https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/come-work-at-yc

Come Work at YC | Y Combinator
June 8, 2021·by Y Combinator
Y Combinator’s legal and software teams, and YC Continuity are hiring. Learn more about the open roles below:
Legal Analyst: YC’s newly established Legal Analyst Program has two open positions, starting immediately. The roles are particularly well-suited for recent college graduates who are considering law school. We are especially interested in meeting candidates who are academically accomplished, team-oriented, self-motivated and who possess excellent organizational skills. This is an exciting opportunity to work side by side with our legal and finance teams on all aspects of the onboarding and diligence process for our portfolio companies. Learn more.
Product Engineer – Y Combinator: Join a small-but-mighty software team that builds the OS that runs all of YC. Work on everything from our Demo Day experience, internal financial systems and tools to help founders connect with one another for advice, intros, deals, networking and more. You’ll have access to all the talks and resources our founders get, and learn how to build a startup at a place that incubated Airbnb, Dropbox, Instacart and more. Learn more.
YC Continuity – Investment Associate: YCC is seeking an Associate to help analyze and invest in growth stage companies. Learn more.
YC Continuity – Program Associate: YCC’s Program Associate will provide operational and administrative support for YC’s growth-stage founder programs. This is a phenomenal role for someone who is interested in learning more about startups, is excited to interact with founders, has excellent project management skills, is meticulously organized, and is obsessive about details. Learn more.
YC Continuity – Series A Program Manager: YCC is seeking a Program Manager to lead the YC Series A Program. The program offers all YC founders resources to help them achieve the best possible outcomes when raising capital: year-round workshops, detailed fundraising guides & templates, and 1:1 support. Learn more.
Author
Y Combinator
Y Combinator created a new model for funding early stage startups. Twice a year we invest a small amount of money ($150k) in a large number of startups (recently 200). The startups move to Silicon
