Title: Future Founders Conference for Women Globally
Author: Kat Mañalac
URL: https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/future-founders-conference-for-women-globally

Future Founders Conference for Women Globally
October 15, 2020·by Kat Mañalac
On November 18, we are hosting our first Future Founders Conference for women who aspire to become a startup founder. The event will be online, and whether you are curious about launching your own startup or are in the early stages of building one, you’ll walk away with the knowledge to define your own path.
Attendees will meet YC partners, our alumnae, and other entrepreneurial women. The one-day event will feature talks and panels (agenda here), followed by breakout rooms with experts. Speakers will share their honest accounts of entrepreneurship, as well as essential startup advice.
Speakers include:
Jessica Livingston, Co-founder of Y Combinator 
Jess Lee, Founder of Polyvore, Partner at Sequoia Capital 
Anu Hariharan, Partner at YC Continuity 
Kat Mañalac, Partner at YC 
Adora Cheung, Partner at YC and Co-founder of Homejoy 
Tracy Young, Co-founder of Plangrid 
Erika Hairston, Co-founder of Edlyft 
Cadran Cowansage, Co-founder of Elpha
Christina Cacioppo, Founder of Vanta 
Pamela Valdes, Co-founder of Beek 
(And more to come!)
If you’d like to attend, apply here by November 9. If your application is accepted, you’ll receive a confirmation email within two weeks. This event is for women who are curious about starting a startup or have just started one. It will be particularly useful for women with science, engineering, or product management backgrounds, or with specific domain expertise that could turn into a startup.
The Future Founder Conference is an evolution of Y Combinator’s Female Founders Conference. Since 2014, the Female Founders Conference has helped women who want to start and run their own startups. We believe creating a platform where successful women can share their stories and advice with founders who are just getting started is one way to bring about even more successful women-led companies. Through the Future Founders Conference, we will evolve the event to bring together even more communities, like prospective Latinx founders and Black founders. Stay tuned!
We need more women-founded startups, and we hope to see you on November 18. If you have questions, please reach out to Events Director Lindsay Selvitelle at ls@ycombinator.com.
Author
Kat Mañalac
Kat is the Managing Outreach Officer at YC. She was Chief of Staff to Alexis Ohanian, cofounder of reddit, before joining YC as its Director of Outreach. Prior to that, Kat was at WIRED Magazine.
