Title: Join the YC Internship Program - Summer 2022
Author: Paige Omura
URL: https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/join-a-yc-startup-summer-2022

Join the YC Internship Program - Summer 2022
March 9, 2022·by Paige Omura
There’s no better way to learn about startups than joining one yourself! At a startup, you’ll jump into real projects and work with founders to solve mission-critical problems. 
YC startups are actively looking for summer interns across engineering, marketing, and other disciplines. If you’re an undergraduate or graduate student, apply below to join our summer 2022 cohort.
When you intern at a YC startup, in addition to hands-on startup experience, you’ll have access to the YC community. You’ll attend closed-door talks with YC founders to hear their lessons learned, and you’ll be part of a strong cohort of fellow students, engineers, and builders at other YC startups. 
Here’s a sneak preview of a few of the many rapidly growing YC startups that you could join: 
Whatnot (W20) is a livestream shopping platform and marketplace that is building the future of ecommerce: an interactive community where creators can make a living off their passion. Whatnot is looking for a software engineer to build new features and implement growth strategies.
Volley (W18) builds voice-controlled entertainment experiences for Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and smartphones. Volley aims to become the go-to hub for interactive audio entertainment, as Netflix did for television. Their 35-person team is looking for social media & marketing and software engineering interns.
Holy Grail (S19) uses electrons to capture CO2 from the atmosphere. Holy Grail, based in Mountain View, CA, has roles available for mechanical engineers, product designers, backend/data engineers and operations to help bring their modular CO2 scrubbers to market.
Alinea (W21) is an investing app for Gen Zs who want to understand the companies they’re investing in. This women-founded team is looking for NYC-based iOS engineering and software engineering interns. 
If you’re up for the challenge, apply to join our summer 2022 cohort!
Apply Now 
Author
Paige Omura
Paige is Operations & Programs Manager at YC, running programs to help YC companies hire top talent. She previously led operations at early-stage hard tech startups. 
Companies Mentioned
Other Posts
