Title: Y Combinator
Author: Greg Kumparak
URL: https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/author/greg

Y Combinator
Select a tab
Recent Posts By Greg Kumparak
Dissecting the past to predict the future: Tracy Young on building TigerEye
In 2018, Tracy Young and her co-founders sold PlanGrid for $875 million. By 2021, she was ready to jump back in and do it all over again with a brand new startup. I chatted with Tracy about what drives her and some of what she's learned along the way.
Founder StoriesAdvice
Greg Kumparak
Greg Kumparak
6/12/2024
Humanloop CEO Raza Habib shares 5 common mistakes teams make when building with LLMs
After working with hundreds of teams to make better products with LLMs, Humanloop CEO Raza Habib shares some of the most common mistakes he's seen.
Greg Kumparak
Greg Kumparak
6/4/2024
The origins of RevenueCat
If you build something because you need it, chances are good others need it too. In this interview, RevenueCat CEO Jacob Eiting shares how solving his own frustrations led to building a tool that helps power over 30,000 apps.
Greg Kumparak
Greg Kumparak
5/30/2024
All Posts
Lessons on building hardware from the founders of Eight Sleep
by Greg Kumparak5/8/2024
The co-founders of Eight Sleep share some things they've learned about building hardware over the last 10 years
Read More 
Getting to know YC's newest Group Partner, David Lieb
by Greg Kumparak4/24/2024
Last week we shared some awesome news: David Lieb, the creator of Bump (part of the summer 2009 batch!) and Google Photos, has joined YC as a Group Partner. I sat down with David to hear more about his incredible story so far.
Read More 
Pivoting to a billion-dollar idea: Lessons from Clipboard Health founder Wei Deng
by Greg Kumparak3/6/2024
Many of the greatest companies in YC’s history pivoted along the way. Here's the story of how Clipboard Health founder Wei Deng found an idea worth over $1B.
Read More 
The 10-Year “Overnight” Success Story of Casetext
by Greg Kumparak11/15/2023
How did Casetext evolve into one of the biggest AI success stories? YC's Garry Tan talks with Casetext co-founder Jake Heller to find out
Read More 
Design Review: How to convert more visitors into customers
by Greg Kumparak10/26/2023
Getting people to visit your startup’s website is just step one. Getting them to actually sign up or buy something is a whole different challenge — and it’s one where good design is crucial. Join YC's Aaron Epstein and Pete Koomen as they share tips for turning more visitors into actual customers.
Read More 
Office Hours: YC’s Group Partners share advice on actually getting things done
by Greg Kumparak10/6/2023
For this episode of Office Hours, the Group Partners are talking about productivity — what works for the founders they help, and, perhaps more importantly, what doesn’t. 
Read More 
Design Review: Building a better mobile app
by Greg Kumparak9/1/2023
There’s a lot to think about when designing mobile apps, where seemingly small details can have a big impact. Viewers have been asking for a mobile-focused episode of Design Review — and here it is!
Read More 
Categories
Admissions
Advice
Biotech
Blockchain
Essay
Female Founders
Founder Stories
Interviews
Startup School
Work at a Startup
YC Events
Want to sign up for weekly updates from YC? Sign up for the newsletter
