Title: Y Combinator’s (Virtual) Summer Career Expo - June 8th
Author: Paige Omura
URL: https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/yc-tech-expo-s22

Y Combinator’s (Virtual) Summer Career Expo - June 8th
May 4, 2022·by Paige Omura
Y Combinator is hosting our Summer Career Expo online on Wednesday, June 8th, 4 pm PT. This is our way to introduce engineers, PMs, and designers to the latest batch of YC startups (W22) that are looking to hire.
Meet the Startups 
We’ve vetted these startups to make sure they’re in a good position to hire, in terms of funding, strong teams, and impactful products to work on. (We’re also including a few older startups, in case you’re open to larger 25-100 person companies!)
At the expo, founders will give rapid-fire pitches about themselves and their companies. After those, we’ll open up an event hall for you to meet them virtually. It’s a great way to survey top YC startups all at once, instead of having to seek them out individually on your own.
Among the 40+ startups attending this year’s event are:
SimpleHash (W22): Organizing NFTs and digital assets by allowing web3 developers to query all NFT data from a single API
Kable (W22): Helping API companies bring their products to market faster through usage-based billing and analytics
Kalshi (W19): The first federally regulated exchange where you can trade on the outcomes of events
Sieve (W22): AI infrastructure for video, enabling software developers to easily process and understand visual data
Agave (W22): Plaid for construction, building an API to help construction companies share data between systems and parties
If you’re considering a job change – or are just curious about what’s out there – we welcome you to apply to join us for an informative and efficient evening of networking with founders. Come meet the latest YC startups that could be the next big thing.
Apply Now 
Special shoutout to Welcome (W20), the company building the virtual events platform that we’re running the expo on!
Author
Paige Omura
Paige is Operations & Programs Manager at YC, running programs to help YC companies hire top talent. She previously led operations at early-stage hard tech startups. 
Companies Mentioned
Other Posts
