Title: YC’s Health & Bio Summit is coming to SF in December — apply now to attend
Author: Surbhi Sarna
URL: https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/yc-health-bio-summit-2023

YC’s Health & Bio Summit is coming to SF in December — apply now to attend
October 11, 2023·by Surbhi Sarna
The last two batches at YC were some of the absolute strongest we've ever seen, in large part because of the healthcare and bio founders we had the privilege of working with. 
YC has now funded over 500 bio and healthcare companies, and they’ve devoted themselves to solving some of the world’s most pressing problems. YC alum are creating vaccines for cancer, decarbonizing the chemicals industry and helping patients with chronic insomnia. 
If you’re in the early stages of building a health or bio startup and want to meet others doing the same, join us at the YC Health & Bio Summit in San Francisco on December 6, 2023. 
Space is limited — you can apply to attend here. Invitations will go out on a rolling basis starting the week of October 15th. If you can’t make it this time, look for recordings of the talks on YouTube in the weeks that follow.
The half-day conference will feature founders and investors from the bio/healthcare space telling their stories and sharing advice for entrepreneurs just getting started, as well as insights from recent YC alumni about their experience going through the program. Talks will be followed by a reception where you’ll meet 150 current and future founders who are doing exciting research, turning their ideas into reality, and building things the world needs.
Speakers include:
Tanay Tandon - Co-founder of Athelas, CEO of Athelas + Commure
Deepika Bodapati - Co-founder of Athelas, COO of Athelas + Commure
Holly Maloney - Managing Director, General Catalyst
Alex Morgan - Partner, Khosla Ventures
Greg Yap - Partner, Menlo Ventures
TJ Parker - Partner, Matrix and Founder of PillPack & Amazon Pharmacy
and hear from founders who recently went through YC:
Namrata Anand - Founder & CEO, Diffuse Bio
Jenny Herbach - Co-founder & CEO, Adventris Pharmaceuticals
Bucky Khan - Co-founder & CEO, Finni Health
George Wang - Co-founder & CEO, Stellar Sleep
…and more speakers to be announced!
Apply for YC's Health & Bio Summit 
Author
Surbhi Sarna
Surbhi is a group partner at Y Combinator. Prior to YC, Surbhi was CEO of nVision Medical, which was acquired by Boston Scientific.
