Title: YC Channel Talk 08
Speaker: Y Combinator
Source: https://youtube.com/watch?v=K5JoLAauzq4
---

Welcome to a very special episode of Design Review. Today I am joined by Evard who is the designer here at YC and we're going to be talking about the brand new YC website that we just launched. [music] >> Ev, thank you for joining. >> Thank you for having me. >> Yeah, this was an incredibly fun project to work on together. It's been, I know, a labor of love for both of us >> and super excited to have it out there. I thought it'd be good in this episode for us to kind of go through >> where did we start? What did the YC website look like before? >> We can do a little mini design review of that and some of the feedback and, , changes and updates that we wanted to make happen. >> And then we can take the audience through where we landed with the new homepage and our thinking behind it. And then at the end maybe we can talk through the process because I think the process for how we built this was actually very unique and different from certainly how I have made a lot of websites and designed things in the past. >> That sounds perfect. >> Awesome. Well, I guess to kick it off, let's start with the old YC homepage. This was originally designed probably four or five years ago during co and it's served us well since then. But I think going through, , we kind of did a design review on it and we felt like it needed to be updated for modern times and and have a different message that we were trying to communicate. >> Tell me some of your thoughts as you're starting to look at at this site here. >> well, my first thought here is it is a very utilitarian website. , it feels a little bit like a B2B SAS template with some call to actions, some picture in the hero section, , and then some text on the left and then some stats and then some logos. But Y is such a truly special brand where we can do so much more in being inspiring and telling a story and this was not really , doing it. And so we thought maybe in the redesign we can take more of a storytelling approach. Another thing that stuck with us is in the top company section, yes, we show the logos, but we don't really talk about the founders who built these companies. And YC not only was part of all of these companies journeys, but it YC was pivotal in the trajectory of all of these companies. And it's something that was a little bit underplayed in the original design. And so that's something that's also like a kind of a wedge that we wanted to explore for the new design is how can we put more emphasis on the founders who built these companies as opposed to just the logo. >> It it's interesting also because the headline here is top YC companies and if if we were just scrolling down this page and reading the headlines like that doesn't really tell me anything. Instead, , we should be saying things like there's dozens of billion-dollar companies that have started NYC is like really I think the message that we wanted to communicate here. going down the headlines here, we help founders make something people want and the results speak for themselves. And it's well, what are the results? , we should just say the thing here. We improve the success rate of our startups. And it's by how much? >> Exactly. >> We we don't really quantify a lot of these things. >> Mhm. Or we don't try to illustrate the outcome necessarily here. It's just it's just text. >> Yep. YC is run by startup founders who've built exactly what they wanted when starting and growing a startup. that's an important message that I we really wanted to keep is that us YC partners like we were all YC founders ourselves which is another thing that really differentiates YC and is unique to YC. And then we get to this section here we put founders interest first which I think is actually a really important message >> but everything underneath it is all these things that we don't do. We don't take a board seat. We don't take months to decide. we don't require decks rather than kind of being the positive version of that. >> Yes. >> this gives, , some good context, I think, for where things started. And, , why don't you take us through the new version that we put together? >> we recently launched this brand new redesign where we took all of our learnings from the original website and then we thought deeply about what kind of messaging we really wanted to convey in the new one. And in that case, we really wanted to not sell you a program or sell you a product, but instead make you dream. >> We were really inspired by the idea of going back to the YC roots. And so we studied very deeply the Paul Graham essays. One word that really stands out when you read PGSAs is formidable. that's that's the word that he use u he uses and also Jessica used to describe the extraordinary founders that they funded a very in the very early days of YC and so we really wanted to include that word it's a very meaningful word that we still use to this day at YC internally and when it comes to the footnote what we wanted to do here is a little nod to how PG has footnotes in his in his essays >> and so here we wanted to provide a little definition of what is the word formidable in the words of of PG. The hero section serves as a header for the second section. So if you scroll down, we try to illustrate the before and after of some of the most successful founders that we've funded. And we really wanted to put the emphasis on the founders and the faces as most of the companies. And we also wanted to highlight the hble beginnings of all of these founders. So that as a builder you see that and you think oh this could be me. >> Mhm. >> I could do this. >> Yeah. All these people on the left look like people going through the batch right now and 10 years from now they will be those people on the right. >> Exactly. >> so it's easy to see yourself I think and realize like these founders that are really incredible have built generational companies actually started in the same place that I'm at right now. Mhm. And then here we wanted to highlight the combined valuation of all the companies that YC has ever funded. And then some additional logos. And then here we have this small paragraph that describes what YC is. But what's amazing is that we decided to keep the exact same copy from the original version of the YC website that was made by PG more than 10 years ago. >> Yeah. >> The only thing that we tweaked is some some some details to make it up to date. Like for example, now we fund companies four times a year >> and it's in San Francisco, no longer in Mountain View. But other than that, the copy is the exact same as what it was on the very original YC website 15 years ago. >> Yeah. thanks to the Wayback Machine, we can actually see the site from I guess this is 13 years ago at this point. And yeah, it looks like the exact same copy. And it looks like the core thing that's happening here is just pictures of what happens in the batch. And then that's the same thing communicating with with these photos here. It's this is the environment. This is what happens when you go through the batch. >> Yes. Something else that we wanted to do here was try to describe the experience of going through IC, but not in our words, in founders words. And so what we did as part of this project is we interviewed some of the some of the founders who went through YC in the last >> one or two years. and we asked them what it felt like to go through YC and what was their biggest key takeaway, what what they think when they look back on their experience. We gathered these small sound bites together and put them side by side so that it feels like continuous text that you can read but they are actually all quotes coming from various founders from different batches. And if you want to put a face next to the next to the quote, you can just hover over and you can see a little bit of information their name their their company. >> Yeah. And this was really important to us, right? Like we didn't want to say a bunch of things about how great YC is and it'll change your life and stuff like that. instead we wanted to just have the founders stories communicate that. , and so I think it makes it a lot more credible and believable when it comes from them rather than us saying it about ourselves. >> Yes. And it's also aligned with the overall theme of putting founders front and center as opposed to YC the brand front and center. >> This is a very fun section. So >> one of the greatest perks of growing through YC is that you get the chance of being in the room with some of the most recognizable faces in Silicon Valley and get personalized advice from them. And so we put these pictures together and we thought, well, one thing that we can do to make them feel even more alive could be to use a little bit of AI to animate them. And we had a lot of fun turning all of these pictures that we started taking during our events and animated them lightly so that they feel a little bit more alive and engaging. talk a little bit about the process of generating these and making them feel authentic and realistic and some of the tools that you used. >> We've tried many many many different tools and very often the faces would change frame by frame and the founders the the main founders in the frame would become unrecognizable. One of the recent YC startups that went through YC actually in in the fall, they recommended us this tool called one and we've been using it to generate the the the videos that we used here for this section. This is probably our favorite section by far. >> and so continuing on the theme of transformation, the most important message that we wanted to share here was all the partners at YC were in your shoes >> not long ago. >> Yeah. >> they were YC founders. They went through the batch. They understand what you're going through. If you hover over each card, we show a picture of each partner when they were in the batch. >> Every time we look at this section, it makes us smile. Yeah. >> And and >> and everybody, I think, , founders when they see this, , it's just fun to see all of us when, , we were going through our batches many, many years ago. M >> and it's it's a visual way to communicate what we really wanted to hit home with this section, right? It like it just makes it so obvious. It's oh, there's Tyler. Tyler went through YC and look how young he looks and man, he must have learned a lot of lessons along the way, right? >> That's also something that we wanted to show on on industry design is that YC is also fun and playful. Going through YC is fun and we don't take ourselves too seriously. And so using all these pictures of like the early days of part of of partners who were going through YC or some of the top founders, it makes it playful. And then we have this section here where we wanted to highlight some of the recent media that we've been putting out. So some some of of our videos and podcast episodes. We wanted to highlight some startup news and then of course some PGs essays here directly. And then final call to action of it's never too early to apply to YC. You should you should not overthink it. >> Yeah, this is one of the common things that we hear from founders a lot which is they think like oh I'm too early or I need to make more progress or I need lots of revenue before I'll be accepted to YC so I shouldn't even apply. And we constantly are telling founders and other people like no no it's never too early to apply. And so we wanted to just take that phrase and just put it right there on the site. anybody who's well, , I don't have revenue or I don't have a product or I don't have a fully baked idea to just tell them like just hit the button. It doesn't matter. We fund people that haven't quit their jobs yet or people that are still in school or are just thinking about an idea, don't even have an idea yet. >> Certainly don't have customers. , so there are no preset requirements like that. , and the best thing that gives you a shot is just hitting the apply button. >> Yep. >> And that's it. We have the footer. >> Amazing. YC's next batch is now taking applications. Got a startup in you? Apply at y combinator.com/apply. It's never too early and filling out the app will level up your idea. Okay, back to the video. >> Tell us more about the overall aesthetic and and where we've ended up here. >> Yes, I think what was very important to us was to focus on the storytelling and then get rid of all the distractions that can take away from from this. And so the hero section is definitely a very notable example of we could have added pictures, animations, things like that, but then we realized after iterating on it and and trying very various versions of it that we'd rather go for something that is extremely minimal and simple and that really gets the message across. What was important to us also was to make it feel very airy and breathable and almost like the content is floating on the page. We wanted to stay away from borders and hard dividers and things like that. And as part of this minimalistic design, what was really important to us was to remove all the distractions and really put the emphasis on the faces and the founders and remove all unnecessary design elements that we didn't need. >> Yeah. And really telling the story all throughout. , , one thing that you commonly see on websites is some type of call to action here. , we considered like should we have an apply button here? And that didn't feel right. I think ultimately because this is not some B2B SAS where we're, , trying to increase the conversion rate 0.1% or something. We want people to be inspired and see themselves in this and think that they could be one of these stories that's here and that having an apply button is not the thing that's going to get some extra person to apply. If anything, it's just going to take the noise away from communicating the story that we really want to tell. I think another thing that's maybe interesting to the audience is the process by which we actually built this and maybe you could tell people a little bit about that like we didn't actually spend a lot of time in Figma and designing frames and things like that. Talk about the process for how we eventually got to this point. >> So we first started exploring different directions and aesthetics in Figma. We started putting together some mood boards of kind of vibes that we wanted to go for for for this project. And when we were set on on a certain direction, we started mocking up a few frames in Figma and then very quickly realized that we felt constrained a little bit. We wanted to think outside of the box and we wanted to play with animations and and make it unique. And very quickly we realized that it would be probably more efficient to create a brand new repo, brand new project and then just chat with Opus 4.5 in cursor and see what it can cook up for us. It allowed us to save a lot of time that way and be a lot more efficient and also a lot more creative probably. Yeah, we ended up on a lot of the, , we wanted to keep the background color that was the same background color that, , we use on the old YC homepage and for the continuity and because it's such an important part of the brand. And we kind of got this structure down. But what was really fun was being able to go section by section and say, what's like the most compelling interactive version of this? Yes. >> Where we can use animation not for animation's sake, but more to actually communicate what we're trying to communicate with this section. Yes. And , it was fun to just like we put together the static thing and then it's okay, well, how can we make it? How can we show a transformation from during YC to now? And, , we explored all these different ideas and ways to do it. >> Yes. >> And to be able to prototype it on something live and see the before and after and oh, what if we had the companies in the middle and you scrolled it like this and it separated the before, , like it took us a while to get there. We played with a lot of different variations. , and I think for all of these sections, we would not have ended up where we ended up had we not been actually doing it live, basically. >> Yep. Totally agree. And it was also great because we used Opus 4.5 as like a co-worker as part of our little design team. We used it to also explore different directions. We literally some of our prompts were >> this is the information we want to show in this section. >> Display it creatively >> and then we see what it cooks up with. And sometimes it's really bad. Sometimes it has a kernel of something good that we wanted to keep iterating on and then eventually it it turned into this carousel that I don't think we would never >> have been able to really come up with in Figma or other static tools. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's it's really cool because I feel like we spent so much of the time just thinking about the interactions and how we communicate this and there's never been a project that I've worked on before where I've spent that much time on the interactions. , and it's because the new tools are possible to be able to do that and it allows us to focus on those really higher level things rather than spending all this time coding out some of the most basic things that we now can get really quickly and really easily. >> Yes, it gave us a lot of bandwidth to focus on the storytelling which was probably the most important part y of this whole project. >> Yep. And so trend-wise, , what I would expect to see u from web and product design over the next year, two years, five years is an evolution more in that direction. Like how can you use not just static images, static text to communicate the ideas that you want to communicate, but how can you use interactivity and animation and things like that, not for that sake, but because it does a better job of communicating the message that you want. Yes, >> it's easier than ever to be able to do that now. >> Amazing. EV, this was an incredibly fun project to work on. I am so proud of where we ended up here and I think this is a site that is going to continue to serve YC and founders on for many many years. , so incredible work. I just want to make sure that everybody, , sees the incredible work that you've done and how many late nights and, , grinding you were doing to to make this thing what it is today. And, , I think I speak for all of us at YC that, , we're just super proud of of where this ended up. Thank you. >> Amazing work. >> It was a dream come true working with you on this project. thank you so much. >> That does it for this design review. I hope this was a fun one. A little bit of a a different take on things looking internally here at YC. Thanks for watching and we'll see you on the next design review.