Title: YC Channel Talk 10
Speaker: Y Combinator
Source: https://youtube.com/watch?v=dC_3ys349bU
---

Welcome back to another episode of Decoded. Today I'm sitting down with YC visiting partner Francois Shaard to talk about one of the most important topics in AI today, diffusion. Francois has been doing computer vision since 2012 when he started in Fee Le's lab. And after a decade running focal systems, he's currently back at Stanford finishing his PhD working on diffusion-based world models for AGI. We're going to break down what diffusion is, how it's evolved over the past decade, and how it's used today. >> [music] >> Francois, thanks for being here. >> Thank you for having me. >> Well, we just got back from Nurups. We just spent a lot of time talking to researchers and thinking about all the newest models out there. , I think we saw diffusion pop up over and over and newer versions of these type of approaches that are not auto reggressive LLM. And so I wanted to talk to you about those today. So first, why don't we start by defining what is diffusion? The fusion is a very fundamental machine learning framework that allows you to learn any p data any probability of data for any domain as long as you have the data. >> So you're trying to learn some data distribution. >> That's right. >> Now in a sense all LLMs or all machine learning models are about learning data distributions. >> How does diffusion in particular what what stance does it take or what approach does it take to being able to learn distribution? >> Yeah, I mean I think you can use diffusion to to always do that. The thing where it stands out in particular is mapping from high dimensions to high dimensions, especially in low data regimes. say I only have 30 images of Gary, which I actually have some code that we're going to walk through. , I only have 30 images of Gary and again, we're in this thousand by 10,000 by3 dimensional space and I want to map to another three 3 million dimensional space with only 30 training samples and I can still do it and it's pretty pretty powerful in that way. >> Okay, cool. so you have this ability to use relatively small amounts of data compared to the dimensionality to learn a P data. That's right. >> , what's the what's the basic process by which diffusion works? Like just walk through like at a very high level and we'll walk through the math a little bit later, but a very high level, how does this process actually work? >> We take some sample of the data, an image of Anka, an image of Gary, and we just hit it with noise. And then we just keep hitting it with noise and we create this train of of noised up images. It's very easy to create noisy images, right? It's hard to create get walk backwards and create from noise images of you or Gary. And so then we flip it and then we try to have teach the model to reverse that process. And that's basically it. >> Okay, cool. So it's basically a a noiser and a dinoiser and the dinoiser is the model that you end up training. >> Exactly. Yeah. You will you will basically teach your force and and give it noised up images and then have it learn intermediate representations to get to back to P data. >> Cool. Nice. And what kinds of stuff is diffusion used for today? What are some applications that it's widely deployed in? >> It's honestly surprising how applicable this process is. I think the the original 2015 Joshua Sixine paper was on CIPR10 which is just images. , and I think it's got it has its roots in images, but it is far more sprawling than just images. As you've seen, we , Deep Mind just won the Nobel Prize for doing this exact procedure on protein folding. you can drive cars with this with the diffusion policy paper, which is like an insane result. you can predict the weather. there's really no limit to the things that this can do. >> Yeah, it's pretty incredible to see. I mean we have these image and video generation models that seem to be really advancing over the last few years. Stable diffusion is the one that I think many people have heard of and then newer versions of it seem to be using this as well. And then yeah in the world of life sciences that my company was in too. I think we see this newest generation of life sciences AI companies are heavily investing in this set of technologies. There's a model called diff do that works really well for predicting small molecule binding to proteins and then yeah alpha fold especially the newest alpha fold versions use diffusion pretty heavily. It's really cool to see the same core piece of technology apply to so many different domains. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> This class of models has evolved over the years and there's a whole slew of papers someone could read. So you should probably go read the papers to learn all the details. But maybe at a high level we can try to trace out a few of the key >> innovations that happened starting with the paper you already mentioned that now led to the newest versions of these models. So how would you map those out? like what was the the first kind of turn of the crank from this very high level diffusion process you outlined what was the first version of that that started to work >> yeah so I think that the 2015 original Josha paper is put up all the key pieces all the key components of modern diffusion and so like now we're just playing with different things so theuler how do we add noise at what weight like that's a whole part that we can discuss what's the loss function should I predict should the the deep learning model condition upon x of t predict the actual data x of t minus one or should it pred predict the error that was just added to it or should it predict the velocity which is the error divided by the time should it predict the velocity of the the start and the end that's called flow matching there's so there's all these different plays on what the loss function is >> so in all of those the idea is still to do dnoising >> yes >> but the objective for each of them is somewhat different from each other and they're all pretty closly related whether it's basically a delta between two things or the previous step or the first step how did these all actually come together but these are series of papers that happened one after another >> yeah I think we just kind of hill climbed on this ferroche inception distance metric that's kind of a kooky weird measure to see how good an image is but we just kept getting better and better and better on it by like doing these little tricks and so like it turns out that predicting the actual data itself is actually quite hard and like maybe predicting the error is actually easier and and predicting the velocity was even easier than that. And then predicting the global error across the entire diffusion schedule is even easier than that. And like just kept finding easier and easier ways to to basically sample from noise to data. >> And here when you say easier were was the ease largely driven by it was mathematically simpler or it was easier to implement and engineer or simpler to reason about or what what got easier really. It actually is that too, but I didn't mean it that way. What I actually meant was it's easier for the model to learn. >> , but it is al and we'll go through some coding examples, the math actually got easier. Yeah. And like the the the code got smaller, which is actually opposite oppositely true in most of the case of most machine learning. You actually things get more complicated. I think we started with units and that was like the predominant architecture. We didn't really talk about architectures that much, but then we got into these, , diffusion transformers and like this cross attention mechanism and things like that. And , yeah, we just kept getting better and better at reducing, , FID. >> Interesting. Should we dive into some code examples? >> Let's do it. >> Let's do it. >> I'll walk you through. I made about , one, two, three, four, five, six, seven of these that I implemented with varying levels of success, but , the the all the structures are going to be the same. So the the Josha paper, the non-equilibri thermodynamics paper, you can see here here are some nice images of Gary. You can see here very nice. This is the what I could find online. >> Nice. >> and then >> so those are images of Gary that you've downsampled so that they're thousand by,000 or they're they're smaller. These are 64 by 64 by 64. >> Yeah, they're really small. This is just a very small example. 64 and then I randomly augment it to create more data. Great. because I was I was lazy and that was easier than downloading more images. Cool. [laughter] >> Didn't want to get security call on you. >> Exactly. and then wait, I implemented this diffusion schedule and this is probably one of the most important like of all the parts of diffusion that's difficult to comprehend. I would say that the noise schedule is actually the hardest part to understand that I really like I struggled with myself. And so if you can see here the noise that's added from time step zero to t to 10 to 25 all the way to 100 is clearly destroying the structure. >> Yes. >> And then we want to train >> where you end is basically random static. >> Exactly. And we want to basically reverse this and from here get to here and have the model get to that point get to this point get the point et etc. And , the interesting part, and this is Joshua really, , , implemented almost everything that we needed for diffusion. , and there was just a few little tweaks that were missing, and he didn't he didn't scale it up. That's to me the the parts that, , , were were were missing. And if you see here the , the noise schedule. So it would make sense to me that I would have linear interpolation between the image and the noise and I would start with like one and zero one being the image and zero being the noise. You gradually add it >> and I gra and I linearly add it. But if you do that it actually is massively unstable because the instantaneous amount of error that you're adding is very small in the beginning. If you think about like an image >> on a relative basis >> on a relative basis and then at the end you have to to destroy all the to get to complete noise you need to add a lot of error >> and so like if you're a model and you're just looking at this little chunk of the noise schedule then you have to handle a lot of error in one step and on this side of the the schedule you need to handle such small amounts of error and what you actually want is constant rel like like relatively constant amount of error being introduced every single time step right and that the the culative s of all that error actually ends up looking like this like this curve here. >> That's the the pink curve. >> Yeah. >> And so they call this a beta schedule. Beta is the diffusion rate, the rate of diffusion that I'm I'm doing while I'm rolling this thing out from time zero to time t capital t. And and so you can see here the the beta schedule. So we we have usually have some beta min to beta max and then we one minus that is the alpha and you can think about the beta as like how much noise I'm adding at every time step. Yep. >> And you think about the alpha as how much yeah being retained and then the term that really matters is the alpha bar and these are the weight weights that are used and it has this kind of like one minus sigmoid looking thing. but that's basically the the noise schedule and once you get that right really this this this part here then everything kind of else just works and then I train some model and then we can actually >> so there what was the training objective again? So you were adding this noise and the training objective was to do what exactly >> the train in this case it's to minimize the kale divergence between the distribution the real distribution and the distribution that I'm learning. And so I I won't go through the code for this one because it's a little bit hairier, but you can kind of see the result on these generated images after 100 diffusion steps at inference time. And you can see that the ferroche inception distance is 222 >> which is like extremely high today like modern day would be like maybe like eight or 10 or something. And what's interesting here, I mean, you kind of scroll through it there, but it's, and you mentioned it, there's quite a lot of code that it actually takes to do that kale divergence base loss. I suspect that in these later models you're going to show, it gets significantly simpler. I'm I'm just mentally noting that because I suspect there's going to be interesting contrast to draw between these two. >> Yeah. the next one I would like to show is flow matching, which is it's just so beautiful and simple. and this was out of meta yearn litman where he basically said we don't need a lot of this stuff. What we need to do forget the if you think about the noising process as being this like I start from data I randomly sample a vector >> of noise and I just go in this direction and then I do it again. I go in this direction and I do it again. I go in that direction. I go in this direction that direction and then I'm here at noise and then you have to teach the thing to go in the exact opposite path and you have to do this very securest path and so at test time it's actually quite expensive you have to do we've all waited for chatgbt or or to to or midjourney to like make an image and it takes a while it's doing like a thousand calls to the model again and again iterating through to get to that point of p data right >> instead >> and like intuitively it's like okay we're doing the ciruitous path but surely there's a shorter path between those two. >> And so that's what makes flow matching so cool to me at least is that they said forget all of that intermediary results. There is a a velocity a global velocity between the noise and the data and it's just this direction. It's just this straight line. And I don't care where you are go in that line. Wherever you are, you're over here. Go in that line and teach it to go in that line. And that's what flow matching does. And so I'll show that in the code. I bet it's like five lines of code. It really is quite simple. And so this pretty cool. So >> here you go. The >> you basically have like 10 15 lines of code that is the most powerful machine learning procedure ever. >> So I I have some data. I an image of Gary. >> Yep. >> I have some noise that I I I some isotropic Gaussian noise that I sample from. >> Yep. there's some time that I'm I'm trying to index into in the diffusion schedule and I'm and I create XT, which is the image at the noised up image that's somewhere between extremely noisy and not noisy at all. >> And and that's basically just the sampling procedure. It's T time data. >> Yep. >> Plus one minus that times noise. Yeah, >> that's right. And then I compute the velocity which is independent of the time. I don't care where you are. It's this the glo this global velocity which is just the noise minus the data and then it I return that back to my training loop which is the the shortest amount of code training [laughter] loop I've ever written which it's five lines of code. I have my batch I have some time I sample from that function I just explained before and then I have my prediction from the model. I feed it in this some element some some noise up image somewhere between lots of noise and little noise x of t let's call it and I just want it to predict the velocity that I want to go >> and this is also really powerful because here you have model abstractor but that model can be any model right so you can put in whatever the relevant model is for your distribution whether that's a protein model for proteins or if it's an LLM for text or an image based model for images >> that is a very clean abstraction as long as you can predict this velocity and then move in that direction. >> That's right. This code here has nothing to do with images. It could be weather data. It could be, , stock market data. It could be trajectories from a robotics in a teaops setup. it could be proteins. It could be DNA. It doesn't really matter. It's all the exact same code. and so and then also we haven't talked about the architecture. So like this model here could be anything you want it to be. like it could be a RNN, it could be a UNET which is typically traditionally is and and modernly they use these diffusion transformers doing this cross attention mechanism and so it can be whatever you want. but this all that is independent from whether or not you're doing flow matching or not. I think this is like a really profoundly interesting result in that especially this I think we often asse as models have gotten more sophisticated that they become less accessible for people to understand but this is >> quite literally 10 lines of code right [laughter] >> that explains >> essentially all of the most important kind of mathematical and fundamental foundations of the models that we all see as generating basically like magical AI results on our phones. Of course, there's lots of engineering how you scale them up. that that model could be a 100 billion parameter across transformer data centers, , GPUs. Totally. Yeah, 100%. >> it's the engineering that's the really hard part there, but a lot of the basic machine learning math is actually quite straightforward. >> That's right. , yeah. And , there's a bunch of these like tangent fields to diffusion that all have some different interpretation on what's actually happening, but it's all the same exact math. And most people learning diffusion actually get quite confused because if you talk to some probabistic graphical model people they'll saying oh this is a proistic graphical model and what's actually this is a hidden markoff model and what we're doing is we're learning this like marovian thing or whatever. It's like okay fine but like it's just >> noise [laughter] >> and like you should just show that first and then like if you think about it from like a physics perspective and and there's all this statmech people that have that interpretation there's a whole bunch of the different interpretations I think it's it gets a little bit confusing and the whole stocastic differential equation people like thinking about that this is a an SDE and I think that's all fine and it probably is helpful to think about but in terms of teaching it it's actually quite quite simple which is powerful. >> Cool. >> So if we go back to here you can see that this just literally predicting the velocity. Your goal is to have the model predict >> you're minimizing the loss between predictive velocity and velocity >> and the actual velocity. That's it. And that's super stable. and it's it's really clean. And then at test time for the physics people this is like a oiler step kind of thing that you're doing where you call the model a bunch of times and you iteratively refine. So back to the hill climbing that we were talking about. I'll grab some random noise here x and I just do and I call basically reverse that that noising process to d noiseise d noiseise d noiseise and >> it's literally Oiler's method like you're you're using the velocity to point in the direction you want >> point in the direction and just keep going keep going keep going until you've done the nber of steps. The one thing that I really don't like about diffusion as it's done today is that I can't keep calling it beyond if I only trained on 100 diffusion steps in my diffusion schedule. If I change that at test time, it doesn't work. And so you can't oh, I want it even better, so I'll call it even more. That doesn't you can't I've tried it. It doesn't work. >> Yeah. There's various tricks people try there, but Yeah. >> Yeah. And so like the there's games played that is actually quite exciting. all the expense. >> But wait, sorry, should be clear here. Here you're saying that's not relevant, right? Because these in this type of model, you don't have this time dependency. >> Well, so you do. So at this time, if you change, for example, the nber of steps, if you double it, let's say that, and you expect to get even higher resolution images, it actually will just turn into like white. Like it actually just like doesn't work at all. , so you can't step beyond nber of steps that was trained. >> That's an important detail. , there are tricks that people are doing to try to compress that. representation. So like if at train time I train for a 100 steps and at test time I want to do 10 steps then what you can do is you can do distillation into the model to try to have the 10-step model learn the 100 step models thing but then you still got to train with 10 steps and so like if you're training with with X steps you have to be using X steps at test time. >> I see interesting. You've talked about this concept of a squint test. Why don't you define the squint test for a second? Tell me a little about where this comes from and then I'd be curious to hear how you think about diffusion models in the context of general intelligence broadly. >> Yan Lakun has this like interesting lecture where he talks about our discovery of flight and that we didn't need flapping wings. We kept trying to mimic a bat and how that was a waste of time. And to that I say you're 100% right. However, we did need two wings. you look at the Wright brother's original plane and you squint and you look at a bird, you're just hm, while we have helicopters and we have jets and things like that, , and rockets, like we we got there eventually. , and so there's many elements in the set of things that can achieve flight and they have different pros and cons. , and there are many elements in the set of things that can achieve intelligence. We are the only existence proof of it at all. And like I'm sure there will be more elements in the set and maybe LLM's broadly speaking can get there. But if I squint and I look at LM setup which I I I see this monolithic stack transformers the same thing stack stack stacked and there's three stages of training. We do this pre-train SFT post- train and then no learning at at all beyond that. and it produces exactly one token at a time, >> right? So iterative token >> iterative token at a time and it never goes backwards. and then you look at a brain massively massive amounts of recursion. You have one learning procedure the whole time. You have these two loes that with a corpus colos between them that's kind of going back and forth like this and we think and then I definitely don't think in one token at a time. When I write code I don't write one little character at a time. I never go backwards and I kind of like am going backwards. I'm recursively improving. I'm going backwards again and again. I'm thinking in concepts. >> There's this like dynamic process that's emitting concepts and then higher level higher level concepts and then lower level manifestations of them. >> And I'm sure that may be happening inside the LLM, but it's like it's almost like stuck. It can't do more than in one step even though it might want to because it has to is the way that we we we trained it, >> right? Like it might have all that in the LLM, but then it's it's sort of bottlenecked ultimately by only its action space is one >> one token at a time. And so I think that that's where I think about diffusion. There's like two main things that diffusion gives me. It doesn't get me all the way to pass my squint test, but it gives me two things that I for sure the brain is doing. Nber one, the entire all of biology and nature leverages randomness. Randomness is good. And what is diffusion doing is leveraging randomness. If you give me data and I noise it up and from that I can learn about the data and like is the can the brain add noise to input data? Absolutely. like absolutely like neurons are massively random. this logn normal distributions, spike patterns and things like that. and the other one is this emission of one thing at a time versus thinking in concepts and then decoding into a big chunk of text and thought and revisioning of the previous thoughts and things like that. And so I think diffusion gives me both of those things for sure. >> People have probably heard of stable diffusion as a very common application of this. people. It's an image generation model that was pretty widely available for the last few years. What people may not be so aware of is all the other ways that diffusion is used in the last few years in products that people are widely using. So what are some of the areas in which diffusion is most widely accessible? >> Yeah, it's really any mapping from very highdimensional P data to very highdimensional action spaces or P data that you may want to map to. And so I mean yeah of course everyone knows generating images because we've done midjourney and things like that and even more modern versions of that with Sora and VO and Flux and SD3 now and things like that. and we've generating videos which is just images stable together and and videogen and image genen and things like that. However, there's so many more applications that now we're seeing. That's the most exciting part in my my view of all the new applications. And so whether or not you're now creating sentences, I mean diffusion LLMs was one of the biggest topics that we saw in Europe. whether it's continuous diffusion LMS or discrete diffusion LLMs. >> that's it's writing code now. it's creating proteins. I mean deep minus won the Nobel Prize for that. There is robotic policies this diffusion policy thing which I think might actually be one of the biggest uses of it and will result in like robotics actually working and rose the robot actually working. there's weather forecasting for the gencast is the most accurate weather forecasting system in the world. it's really anything even even like I I I mentioned Harrison working on the the diffs diffusion for failure sampling just like sampling from for failures and like bad things that could happen. we can do that as well. >> So a lot of the the products where we see people actually using AI especially for things other than just textbased chat a lot of them are using diffusion especially on images, videos increasingly now things like code in the life sciences. So yeah pretty pretty wide birth of things. Yeah, in fact, I would say the only two holdouts right now where state-of-the-art is not diffusion diffusion has eaten all of AI except two AR LLMs still are outperforming and gameplay and things like Alph Go. And so MCTS is still a state-of-the-art for those types of things. And so we haven't seen diffusion really take a step in those two fold those two areas, but more research is needed. So to bring the conversation to a head now, how should people think about this research area either as researchers contributing to the field or as founders looking to build a new product? >> Yeah, I mean I would think about maybe there's falls in two camps. If you're training models yourself or if you're using models and and not in the business of training models, if you're in the business of training models, I would seriously look at diffusion. I don't care what your application is. You should be looking at this procedure. even if it's just to get a latent space that you can then train off of. And so there's no application in machine learning that I I don't think you should be heavily looking at diffusion procedures as a fundamental piece of of your training loop. in the in the case of people who are are not training models, I would just like update your prior on how good these things are getting. And if you just look at in the last 5 years on how good image generation got from midjourney when we first came out to VO and Sora and Flux and SD3 now it's like it's like thousand times better right the answer was just scale it up and that takes time and that takes money and all those things and data and now you apply that to proteins you apply that to DNA you apply that to robotics policies a self-driving car I mean it is skate to where the puck's going to go all these things are going to work and we're we're watching it happen. It may cost money and time and those kinds of things but those are those are solvable things. Those are tractable problems that we can go solve. and also the the core procedure of diffusion is getting better. That's another major simpler a lot simpler and it's getting like it's just working better and so skates where the puck's going to go. Bet that rose to the robot will work in people's homes. bet that the the protein folding is only going to get better and now we're going to apply that to DNA and all these other metabolomics and things like that. >> We we see founders develop new models for robotics or for text generation or for video using diffusion. and we see founders who are using all these methods coming from other places build companies on top of them and it seems like there's this whole new wave of companies that can be built on either end of this now >> right I think it's going to redefine the entire economy. >> Thanks so much for joining us. We're going to keep digging in on topics related to machine learning research like diffusion. Can't wait to see you at the next one. [music]