YC Application Questions
========================

These are the standard Y Combinator application questions that founders must answer
when applying to a YC batch. They are publicly known and widely discussed.

COMPANY
-------

1. Company name:
2. Company URL, if any:
3. If you have a demo, what's the URL?
4. Describe what your company does in 50 characters or less.
5. What is your company going to make? Please describe your product and what it does or will do.
6. Where do you live now, and where would the company be based after YC?

FOUNDERS
--------

7. Founders: Please enter the url of a 1 minute unlisted YouTube video introducing the founder(s).
8. Please tell us about an interesting project, preferably outside of class or work, that two or more of you created together.
9. How long have the founders known one another and how did you meet? Have any of the founders not met in person?

PROGRESS
--------

10. How far along are you? Do you have a beta, a+
 prototype, or just an idea?
11. How long have each of you been working on this? How much of that has been full-time?
12. Are people using your product?
13. Do you have revenue? If so, how much and what is your monthly growth rate?
14. If you are applying with the same idea as a previous batch, did anything change? If you applied with a different idea, why did you pivot and what did you learn from the last idea?
15. If you have already participated or committed to participate in an ideaincubator, "deck day", or "demo day" event, please tell us about it.

IDEA
----

16. Why did you pick this idea to work on? Do you have domain expertise in this area? How do you know people need what you're making?
17. What's new about what you're making? What substitutes do people resort to because it doesn't exist yet (or they don't know about it)?
18. Who are your competitors, and who might become competitors? Who do you fear most?
19. What do you understand about your business that other companies in it just don't get?

EQUITY
------

20. Have you incorporated, or formed any legal entity (like an LLC) yet?
21. Have you taken any investment yet?
22. If you have not formed the company yet, describe the planned equity ownership breakdown among the founders, employees and any other proposed stockholders.

LEGAL
-----

23. Are any of the founders covered by noncompetes or intellectual property agreements that overlap with your project? If so, please explain.
24. Who writes code, or does other technical work on your product? Was any of it done by a non-founder? Please explain.

OTHERS
------

25. Is there anything else we should know about your company?
26. If you had any other ideas you considered applying with, please list them — one may be something we've been waiting to fund.

CURIOUS
-------

27. Please tell us something surprising or amusing that one of you has discovered.